---
title: "Deep Reinforcement Learning-Based Distributed 3D UAV Trajectory Design"
collection: publications
# permalink: /publication/2009-10-01-paper-title-number-1
# excerpt: 'This paper is about the number 1. The number 2 is left for future work.'
date: 05 February 2024
venue: 'IEEE Transactions on Communications'
paperurl: 'https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10422956'
citation: 'H. He, W. Yuan, S. Chen, X. Jiang, F. Yang and J. Yang, "Deep Reinforcement Learning-Based Distributed 3D UAV Trajectory Design," in IEEE Transactions on Communications, vol. 72, no. 6, pp. 3736-3751, June 2024, doi: 10.1109/TCOMM.2024.3361534.'
---

The deployment of UAVs as aerial base stations (BSs) has been considered as a promising supplement to the ground networks, which can quickly build an emergency communication network in a disaster area or significantly relief the communication burden imposed by hot-spots. However, the application of UAVs as aerial BSs is constrained by the limited onboard energy and communication coverage of UAVs. In particular, for a large target area, multiple UAVs should be deployed to meet the communication requirements. Therefore, designing the optimal trajectories of multiple UAVs is crucial to boost the UAV network performance. Inspired by the promising future of UAV BSs, this paper aims at proposing a distributed 3-dimensional (3D) trajectory design algorithm for multiple UAVs to optimize the system performance. We formulate the trajectory design problem as a multi-objective optimization problem to improve the user equipment (UE) access rate, ensure fair access opportunities, increase transmitted data volume and reduce energy consumption. Further inspired by the decision-making ability of deep reinforcement learning (DRL) in complex environments, we propose a DRL based trajectory design algorithm for multiple UAVs, namely DMTD, in which UAVs can explore both the optimal flight altitude and the potential UE distribution area in the iterative interactions with the environment, and then select the optimal flight trajectories to boost the network performance from multiple aspects. Extensive experimental results under different UE distributions have demonstrated that the proposed DMTD algorithm can find the optimal altitude to provide maximum coverage. Moreover, DMTD beats existing algorithms by providing high UE access rate, ensuring fair network service and increasing total transmitted data volume at the cost of a relatively low energy consumption. Especially in the scenes with dense and randomly distributed UEs, DMTD provides a UE access rate close to 0.9 and transmits 6 times of data volume than existing algorithms.
